`Hds::CodeEditor` Website updates (#2626)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/code-editor/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

## Usage

### When to use

- When a user needs to create code from scratch.
- When code requires modification from an existing source.

### When not to use

- As a read-only reference for code, use the [Code Block](/components/code-block) instead.

## Standalone

The `isStandalone` property increases the portability of the Code Editor to ensure that it can be used in different contexts. For example, a common use case of the Code Editor is in a "standalone" context, which can be part of a form, multi-step process, and is generally a part of the normal layout flow.

> ![Code editor with rounded corners for enabled standalone property](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-rounded-standalone.png)

Reviewer: [nit]

```suggestion
![Code Editor with rounded corners for enabled standalone property](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-rounded-standalone.png)
```

Sometimes it may be necessary to use the Code Editor in a more dense layout or nested within another component.

> ![Code editor embedded inside of a larger UI, where it is highlighted where the user is actively editing.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-block-level.png)

Reviewer: [another nit] :sorry-cat:

```suggestion
![Code Editor embedded inside of a larger UI, where it is highlighted where the user is actively editing.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-block-level.png)
```

## Header

> The header is optionally available within the Code Editor. It consists of three sections that can be toggled as needed: the text content that includes the title and description, an actions container for secondary actions, and a custom yielded section of primary actions.

Reviewer: [nit] You _could_ format these as bullets if you wanted since it's three options, but not opinionated.
```suggestion
The header is optionally available within the Code Editor. It consists of three sections that can be toggled as needed:

- the text content that includes the title and description
- an actions container for secondary actions
- a custom yielded section of primary actions.
```

### When to use a title and description

A title and description provides additional contextual information for the Code Editor. An accessible name is mandatory and can either be provided by the title or by an external text element.

!!! Do

> This provides an accessible name for the Code Editor so that a user and assistive technology can understand its purpose.

Reviewer 2: That would have to be identified in the code section, right?

> This provides an accessible name for the Code Editor so that a user and assistive technology can understand its purpose.

Author: We do call it out at the top of the how-to-use docs now

```
## How to use this component

To use this component, you must either include the yielded `Title` component, provide an `@ariaLabel`, or specify an `@ariaLabelledBy`.
```

![A partial form with a radio group labeled with "Enforement behavior" and then the options "Advisory" with helper text "failed policies produce a warning", "Soft mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies can be overriden", "Hard mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies stop the run". Then the Code Editor with an external acessible name/title "Policy code (Sentinel)"](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-do-accessible-name.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

Assuming a user would understand the intent of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name will cause confusion and fail on accessibility requirements.
![A partial form with a radio group labeled with "Enforement behavior" and then the options "Advisory" with helper text "failed policies produce a warning", "Soft mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies can be overriden", "Hard mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies stop the run". The Code Editor has no accessible name.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-dont-external-accessible-name.png)

!!!

## Secondary actions

> The secondary actions section is for two optional buttons: [Copy Button](/components/copy/button) and a button to expand the editor. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard. The other button maximizes and minimizes the Code Editor from inline to full screen. These actions are considered supporting functions less vital to the user’s work but may be useful.

Reviewer: This is a bit more active voice, also might be a bit more clear to say exactly what the second button does (fill the viewport, full screen, etc). I'm not totally sold on this suggestion though, so feel free to completely ignore me

```suggestion
The secondary actions section supports two optional buttons: [Copy Button](/components/copy/button) and a button to expand the editor to fill the viewport. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard, while the second button maximizes and minimizes the Code Editor from inline to full screen. These actions are considered supporting functions less vital to the user’s work but may be useful.
```

Sometimes it may be necessary to use the Code Editor in a more dense layout or nested within another component.

![Code Editor embedded inside of a logs UI, where the corners are squared to fit within container.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-block-level.png)

## Header

An optional header is available within the Code Editor. It consists of three sections that can be toggled as needed:

- the text content that includes the title and description
- an actions container for secondary actions
- a custom content section for adding primary actions

### When to use a title and description

A title and description provides additional contextual information for the Code Editor. An accessible name is mandatory and can either be provided by the title or by an external text element.

!!! Do

Provide an accessible name for the Code Editor so that users of assistive technology can understand its purpose.

![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. It has the heading "Policy code (Sentinel)" immediately before.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-do-accessible-name.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

> Assume all users will understand the purpose of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name. (Not providing one may cause confusion and is an accessibility failure.)

Reviewer: [nit] I'm not sure if you need the parentheses here, this is just it's own sentence.

```suggestion
Assume all users will understand the purpose of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name. Not providing one may cause confusion and is an accessibility failure.
```

![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. The Code Editor has no title labelling it.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-dont-external-accessible-name.png)

!!!

## Secondary actions

> The secondary actions section supports two optional buttons: the [Copy Button](/components/copy/button), and a “full screen” button. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard, while the full screen button toggles the size of the Code Editor from inline view to full screen.

Reviewer 3: Comment: We should try to follow a consistent style for quotes, at least within the same “page”.

In this text, curly quotes are used:
... and a “full screen” button...

In other text, straight quotes are used:
... heading "Policy code (Sentinel)" immediately ...

(My personal preference would be to use typographic quotes, i.e. curly quotes but we haven‘t really been following that.)

> ![The secondary actions container is shown twice, both with the Copy Button and full screen button. First showing the full screen button with the maximize icon and the second showing it with the minimize icon.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-secondary-actions.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![The secondary actions container is shown twice, both with the Copy Button and full screen button; the first showing the full screen button with the maximize icon, and the second showing it with the minimize icon.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-secondary-actions.png)
```

![The Code Editor's line 1 with the active line highlight, shown with a blinking cursor and border around the entire line.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-code-active-line.png)

When a user selects a piece of code, the active line highlight no longer displays although the line number of the last line of the selection will be highlighted.

![The Code Editor's line 1 to 3 selected and showing the green selection highlighted color](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-line-selection.png)

## Bracket highlighting

The Code Editor automatically closes open quotes and brackets as the user types. When the user’s cursor is next to a bracket, the bracket will highlight to show the start and end of the pair.

![The Code Editor's line 1 is highlighted and the user's cursor is next to a bracket. That bracket and its pair are both highlighted with a white border.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-bracket-highlighting.png)

## Language

Language determines how syntax highlighting is applied and formatted within the editor but is handled a bit differently between the Ember and Figma components.

> The **Ember** component uses [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/) to handle syntax highlighting and comes with a pre-defined set of languages.

Reviewer: [nit] You could link to the languages from here if you think it would be helpful.
```suggestion
The **Ember** component uses [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/) to handle syntax highlighting and comes with a pre-defined set of [languages](/components/code-editor?tab=code#language-1).
```

> In **Figma** we provide a handful of example languages intended as visual examples. (Syntax highlighting in Figma is a non-trivial process and requires the manual application of color styles to each "type" of code.) You are still able to add a custom code snippet to the Figma component by typing/pasting into the text layer, but syntax highlighting will not be automatically applied.

Reviewer: [suggestion] I don't think you need these parentheses here either, this seems like it's own sentence.

```suggestion
In **Figma** we provide a handful of example languages intended as visual examples. Syntax highlighting in Figma is a non-trivial process and requires the manual application of color styles to each "type" of code. You are still able to add a custom code snippet to the Figma component by typing/pasting into the text layer, but syntax highlighting will not be automatically applied.
```

## Usage

### When to use

- When a user needs to create code from scratch.
- When code requires modification from an existing source.

### When not to use

- As a read-only reference for code, use the [Code Block](/components/code-block) instead.

## Standalone

> The `isStandalone` property increases the portability of the Code Editor to ensure that it can be used in different contexts. For example, a common use case of the Code Editor is in a "standalone" context, which can be part of a form or multi-step process and is generally a part of the normal layout flow.

Reviewer 4: [Question] Sorry if I'm missing some context here, but I don't see any `isStandalone` property in the component API. Is this a FIgma only property?

Reviewer 2: There is a [Standalone modifier](https://hds-showcase-git-alex-ju-code-editor-codemirror-spike-hashicorp.vercel.app/components/code-editor#standalone-modifier-usage) that this is for.

Reviewer 2: We also updated the component to have the isStandalone property.

![Code Editor with rounded corners for enabled standalone property](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-rounded-standalone.png)

Sometimes it may be necessary to use the Code Editor in a more dense layout or nested within another component.

![Code Editor embedded inside of a logs UI, where the corners are squared to fit within container.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-block-level.png)

## Header

An optional header is available within the Code Editor. It consists of three sections that can be toggled as needed:

- the text content that includes the title and description
- an actions container for secondary actions

> - a custom yielded section of primary actions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- a custom content section for adding primary actions
```

### When to use a title and description

A title and description provides additional contextual information for the Code Editor. An accessible name is mandatory and can either be provided by the title or by an external text element.

!!! Do

Provide an accessible name for the Code Editor so that users of assistive technology can understand its purpose.

![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. It has the heading "Policy code (Sentinel)" immediately before.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-do-accessible-name.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

Assume all users will understand the purpose of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name. (Not providing one may cause confusion and is an accessibility failure.)
![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. The Code Editor has no title labelling it.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-dont-external-accessible-name.png)

!!!

## Secondary actions

> The secondary actions section supports two optional buttons: [Copy Button](/components/copy/button) and a button to expand the editor to fill the viewport. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard, while the second button maximizes and minimizes the Code Editor from inline to full screen. These actions are considered supporting functions less vital to the user’s work but may be useful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The secondary actions section supports two optional buttons: the [Copy Button](/components/copy/button), and a “full screen” button. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard, while the full screen button toggles the size of the Code Editor from inline view to full screen.
```

![The secondary actions container is shown twice, both with the Copy Button and full screen button. First showing the full screen button with the maximize icon and the second showing it with the minimize icon.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-secondary-actions.png)

> ## Custom yielded actions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Custom actions
```

> This space is reserved for primary custom yielded actions. Primary actions are defined as necessary for the user to complete their work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This space is intended for custom primary actions. Primary actions are those which are necessary for the user to complete their work.
```

![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title". The custom yielded element section shows a placeholder and is between the title and the editor.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-yielded-actions-placeholder.png)

!!! Do

![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title". The custom yielded section has a "Reveal secrets" toggle.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-primary-yielded-actions.png)

> 

Reviewer 3: This "Do" section is missing text. (It's difficult to understand the intention with only an image as the content.)

> !!! Do
> 
> ![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title". The custom yielded section has a "Reveal secrets" toggle.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-primary-yielded-actions.png)
> 

Reviewer 2: How does this sound @KristinLBradley? Personally I felt the text above would be helpful for this, but I can reiterate.
```suggestion
!!! Do

Ensure items present in this area are useful to the user's work

![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title". The custom yielded section has a "Reveal secrets" toggle.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-primary-yielded-actions.png)

```

Reviewer 3: Thanks. I'm thinking now maybe there shouldn't be a “Do” at all. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I think keeping an example of what this would look like is a good idea. But maybe removing the "Do" wrapping?

Reviewer 3: Good idea. Maybe just add an explanatory heading or caption. For example, "Example of a custom action to reveal secrets" or similar.

Author: @majedelass - Can you resolve this if its been addressed?

Reviewer 2: Resolving.

## Usage

### When to use

- When a user needs to create code from scratch.
- When code requires modification from an existing source.

### When not to use

- As a read-only reference for code, use the [Code Block](/components/code-block) instead.

## Standalone

> The `isStandalone` property increases the portability of the Code Editor to ensure that it can be used in different contexts. For example, a common use case of the Code Editor is in a "standalone" context, which can be part of a form, multi-step process, and is generally a part of the normal layout flow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `isStandalone` property increases the portability of the Code Editor to ensure that it can be used in different contexts. For example, a common use case of the Code Editor is in a "standalone" context, which can be part of a form or multi-step process and is generally a part of the normal layout flow.
```

![Code Editor with rounded corners for enabled standalone property](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-rounded-standalone.png)

Sometimes it may be necessary to use the Code Editor in a more dense layout or nested within another component.

![Code Editor embedded inside of a logs UI, where the corners are squared to fit within container.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-block-level.png)

## Header

> The header is optionally available within the Code Editor. It consists of three sections that can be toggled as needed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An optional header is available within the Code Editor. It consists of three sections that can be toggled as needed:
```

- the text content that includes the title and description
- an actions container for secondary actions

> - a custom yielded section of primary actions.

Reviewer 3: The custom content could contain anything, if I'm not mistaken, not just actions (buttons, links).

Reviewer 2: Correct, however in guidelines we write what we want folks to use it for.

> - a custom yielded section of primary actions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- a custom content section for including additional actions or other content
```

### When to use a title and description

A title and description provides additional contextual information for the Code Editor. An accessible name is mandatory and can either be provided by the title or by an external text element.

!!! Do

> This provides an accessible name for the Code Editor so that a user and assistive technology can understand its purpose.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This provides an accessible name for the Code Editor, helping users of assistive technology understand its purpose.
```

![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. It has the heading "Policy code (Sentinel)" immediately before.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-do-accessible-name.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Assuming a user would understand the intent of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name will cause confusion and fail on accessibility requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assume all users will understand the purpose of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name. (This may cause confusion and is an accessibility failure.)
```

> ![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. The Code Editor has no title before it.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-dont-external-accessible-name.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A Code Editor embedded in a form following a set of radio buttons. The Code Editor has no title labelling it.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-dont-external-accessible-name.png)
```

!!!

## Secondary actions

The secondary actions section supports two optional buttons: [Copy Button](/components/copy/button) and a button to expand the editor to fill the viewport. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard, while the second button maximizes and minimizes the Code Editor from inline to full screen. These actions are considered supporting functions less vital to the user’s work but may be useful.

> ![The secondary actions container is shown twice, both with the Copy Button and full screen button. First showing the full screen button with the maximize icon and the second showing it with the minimize icon.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-secondary-actions.png)

Reviewer 3: Oh, here the 2nd button is referred to as a "full screen button" I see. This same language should be used in the explanatory text above.

## Custom yielded actions

> This space is reserved for primary custom yielded actions. Primary actions are defined as necessary for the user to complete their work.

Reviewer 3: Technically any kind of content can be added here (at least in The Ember component as implemented). Is it intended mainly for "Primary custom actions" though? We could explain that purpose but should describe this as a custom content area. I also think we should avoid the term "yielded" in a design context like this as it's an Ember.js technical term that doesn't mean much in a design context.

Reviewer 2: Yeah in guidelines we tend to write how we intend folks to use the space, even though technically they can do anything, we are leaning towards primary actions.

![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title". The custom yielded element section shows a placeholder and is between the title and the editor.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-yielded-actions-placeholder.png)

!!! Do

![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title". The custom yielded section has a "Reveal secrets" toggle.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-primary-yielded-actions.png)

!!!

!!! Warning

The Code Editor has limited support for dark mode styles. Buttons have pre-defined dark mode styles, but all other components require manual color adjustments until a dark mode theme is released. Please [contact the Design Systems Team](about/support) for help translating components into dark mode.

!!!

## External elements

> Some elements or functions outside the Code Editor may affect the content within the Code Editor. In this case, we recommend turning off the header to couple the editor with the nearby elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some elements or functions outside the Code Editor may affect the content within the Code Editor. In this case, we recommend turning off the header to visually couple the editor with the controlling elements.
```

![A Code Editor with the external title "Automations and expressions" coupled with a filter input, "Copy" dropdown, "Version" dropdown, and a "Create new version" button.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-functions.png)

## Active line highlighting

> When a user is editing code on a single line, a highlight will be present to emphasize their location in the Code Editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While a user is editing code, a highlight will be present to emphasize their location in the Code Editor.
```

![The Code Editor's line 1 with the active line highlight, shown with a blinking cursor and border around the entire line.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-code-active-line.png)

> When a user selects code (even if it’s within a single line), the active line highlight will no longer be present, however, the line number on the left will remain highlighted. The highlighted number will be present wherever the users stops their selection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a user selects a piece of code, the active line highlight no longer displays although the line number of the last line of the selection will be highlighted.
```

> ![An external accessible name/title with a coupled search field, dropdown labeled with "Copy", another dropdown labeled with "Version" and a button labeled with "Create new version"](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-functions.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![A Code Editor with the external title "Automations and expressions" coupled with a filter input, "Copy" dropdown, "Version" dropdown, and a "Create new version" button.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-functions.png)
```

> ![The Code Editor's line 1 with the active line highlight.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-code-active-line.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![The Code Editor's line 1 with the active line highlight, shown with a blinking cursor and border around the entire line.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-code-active-line.png)
```

![The Code Editor's line 1 to 3 selected and showing the green selection highlighted color](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-line-selection.png)

## Bracket highlighting

> The Code Editor will automatically close quotes and brackets as the user writes their code. When the user’s cursor is next to a bracket, that bracket will highlight to show the start and end of the pair.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Code Editor automatically closes open quotes and brackets as the user types. When the user’s cursor is next to a bracket, the bracket will highlight to show the start and end of the pair.
```

![The Code Editor's line 1 is highlighted and the user's cursor is next to a bracket. That bracket and its pair are both highlighted with a white border.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-bracket-highlighting.png)

## Language

Language determines how syntax highlighting is applied and formatted within the editor but is handled a bit differently between the Ember and Figma components.

The **Ember** component uses [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/) to handle syntax highlighting and comes with a pre-defined set of languages.

> In **Figma** we provide a handful of example languages that are intended to be representative of the end result in production. Syntax highlighting in Figma is a non-trivial process and requires the manual application of color styles to each "type" of code. Despite this, creating a custom code snippet with the Code Editor is supported by typing/pasting into the text layer, but syntax highlighting will not be automatically applied.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In **Figma** we provide a handful of example languages intended as visual examples. (Syntax highlighting in Figma is a non-trivial process and requires the manual application of color styles to each "type" of code.) You are still able to add a custom code snippet to the Figma component by typing/pasting into the text layer, but syntax highlighting will not be automatically applied.
```

### Applying syntax highlighting

If you wish to create custom examples using the Code Editor, we publish all of the relevant syntax highlighting variables in the [HDS Components v2.0](https://www.figma.com/design/iweq3r2Pi8xiJfD9e6lOhF/HDS-Components-v2.0?node-id=67166-37020&t=gWdKy44MzTP4cTRo-1) library. However, due to the number of languages supported by the component, the color variables use a generic naming schema (e.g., cyan, red, purple) to remain as agnostic as possible when being applied to different languages.

> For more details around syntax visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more details around syntax, visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).
```

> For more details around syntax visit the [specifications](https://helios.hashicorp.design/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).

Reviewer 5: Just this should work
```suggestion
For more details around syntax visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).
```

> ## Usage

Author: Yes, just a placeholder at the moment, apologies, this should have been in draft mode.

### When to use

- To allow users to create and edit code with the support of syntax highlighting, change history, and keyboard navigation.

### When not to use

> - To display static blocks of code.

Reviewer 4: [Question] Should we add a link to the `CodeBlock` here, since that's the component that should be used in this situation?

![A partial form with a radio group labeled with "Enforement behavior" and then the options "Advisory" with helper text "failed policies produce a warning", "Soft mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies can be overriden", "Hard mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies stop the run". Then the Code Editor with an external acessible name/title "Policy code (Sentinel)"](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-do-accessible-name.png)

This provides an accessible name for the Code Editor so that a user and assistive technology can understand its purpose.

!!!

!!! DONT

![A partial form with a radio group labeled with "Enforement behavior" and then the options "Advisory" with helper text "failed policies produce a warning", "Soft mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies can be overriden", "Hard mandatory" with helper text "Failed policies stop the run". The Code Editor has no accessible name.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-dont-external-accessible-name.png)

Assuming a user would understand the intent of the Code Editor without providing an accessible name will cause confusion and fail on accessibility requirements.

!!!

## Secondary actions

> The secondary actions section is for two individually optional buttons: CopyButton and a button to expand the editor. The CopyButton copies the content of the CodeEditor to clipboard (more details can be found in the [CopyButton guidelines](/components/copy/button)), while the other button maximizes and minimizes the Code Editor view from inline to full screen (and back again). These actions are considered supporting functions that are less vital to the user’s work but may be useful.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The secondary actions section is for two optional buttons: [Copy Button](/components/copy/button) and a button to expand the editor. The Copy Button copies the content of the Code Editor to the clipboard. The other button maximizes and minimizes the Code Editor from inline to full screen. These actions are considered supporting functions less vital to the user’s work but may be useful.
```

![The secondary actions container is shown twice, both with the CopyButton and Expand button. First showing the FullScreenButton with the maximize icon and the second showing the FullScreenButton with the minimize icon.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-secondary-actions.png)

## Custom yielded actions

This space is reserved for primary custom yielded actions. Primary actions are defined as necessary for the user to complete their work.

> 

Reviewer 6: [suggestion] Including an example with the placeholder will better inform consumers where the custom yielded block will be.

> ![The Code Editor with the title "CodeEditor title," with the secondary actions showing both the CopyButton and FullScreenButton. The custom yielded element section showing a toggle with the label "Reveal secrets."](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-primary-yielded-actions.png)

Reviewer 6: This would be a good "do" example

> The Code Editor has limited support for dark mode styles and requires consumer maintenance until a dark mode theme is released. Only Buttons have pre-defined dark mode styles in the Code Editor.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
!!! Warning

The Code Editor has limited support for dark mode styles. Buttons have pre-defined dark mode styles, but all other components require manual color adjustments until a dark mode theme is released. Please contact the Design Systems Team for help translating components into dark mode.
!!!
```

> ### External elements

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## External elements
```

> Some elements or functions outside the Code Editor may affect the content within the Code Editor. In this case, we recommend turning off the header helps unify the editor with the nearby elements.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Some elements or functions outside the Code Editor may affect the content within the Code Editor. In this case, we recommend turning off the header to couple the editor with the nearby elements.
```

![An external accessible name/title with a coupled search field, dropdown labeled with "Copy", another dropdown labeled with "Version" and a button labeled with "Create new version"](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-external-functions.png)

## Active line highlighting

When a user is editing code on a single line, a highlight will be present to emphasize their location in the Code Editor.

![The Code Editor's line 1 with the active line highlight.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-code-active-line.png)

When a user selects code (even if it’s within a single line), the active line highlight will no longer be present, however, the line number on the left will remain highlighted. The highlighted number will be present wherever the cursor is located.

> ![The Code Editor's line 1 to 3 selected and showing the green selection highlighted color](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-line-selection.png)

Reviewer 6: [nit] There's no cursor blink line (not sure what that's called lol) where the user stops their selection. It looks like the cursor should also be the [text variant](https://www.figma.com/design/vqhh0wWZ8PwnRkvh1jk7jB/Utilities-UI-Kit?node-id=4-3862&t=X6aOIhd5jLKD5Z7n-4).

[screencast-hds-showcase-git-alex-ju-code-editor-codemirror-spike-hashicorp_vercel_app-2025_01_07-15_41_14.webm](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/73be0240-2722-44d6-a5d9-57fa7a4e43a2)
